well howdy there internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're gonna talk about
steel and a fourteen-year-old boy still
a fourteen-year-old boy named Emmett
Till he's a name that a lot of people
who recognize and he has had a number of
signs over the years he's had have a
number of markers because people keep
defacing them stealing them shooting
them and people know generally the story
more or less they know part of at least
I don't know that everybody knows the
whole stories and that's what we're
going to talk about in the summer of
1955 a fourteen-year-old boy named
Emmett Till was murdered for whistling
at a white woman engaging in some form
of social interaction with a white one
that's generally the story that people
know what I don't think that most people
know is that in 2008 the woman that set
this chain of events into motion
admitted that she made large parts of it
up
or
that the people who did it were
acquitted a court of law and then the
next year went on to give interviews
talking about what they did because
double jeopardy applied and they
couldn't be retried I got away got away
with it I don't know that most people
know that his mother was a woman of
steel unwavering unflinching afterward
he was returned to Chicago and his
mother had an open casket
keep in mind yeah he was the victim of a
brutal murder but he was also in water
for three days in the summer in
Mississippi it's a pretty horrible sight
it is a pretty horrible sight
she said she did it because if the death
of my son can mean something to the
other unfortunate people all over the
world then for him to have died a hero
would mean more to me than for him to
just died
photographs were taken about boy and
they were published in magazines all
over the country and those photos
stilled resolve the galvanized people
it's very hard to remain neutral after
seeing something like that it was a
catalyst for the civil rights movement
you know people say that he was the
sacrificial lamb for the civil rights
movement I don't know that people
understand how true that statement is
because it's not just that he died and
that was the catalyst he was a
sacrificial lamb the lamb is without
blemish it's innocent Rosa Parks
credited him with stealing her resolve
and although the black community in the
United States already knew it that
acquittal became the moment they knew it
they knew they were not going to get
justice in a courtroom they knew they
couldn't rely on the courts so they had
to take other action and it was the
civil rights movement
fourteen-year-old boy and there are a
number of ways you can look at this new
sign you can look at it that it is
horrible at half a century later there
are still people who would deface a
marker for an innocent teenage boy who
was murdered and shoot it you look at it
like that but see I love it when
something good poetic even comes out of
something bad his new sign is made out
of ar500
it's bulletproof it's still literally
bulletproof
sign should always been still does
legacy was his legacy was bulletproof
his mom was still unwavering unflinching
just like that new side 500 pounds now
gonna make it real hard to move it and
take it I think that's very fitting
because this legacy this story doesn't
matter somebody shoots the sign or
spray-paints it or takes it it's there
it's carved in stone and blood in
American history
now it's carbon steel sign should always
been steel anyway it's just a thought
y'all have a good night